feat: Add Node Observability doc (#246)
momentohq/public-dev-docs: docs/develop/sdks/nodejs/observability.mdx

First, set up metrics in your application:
```typescript
const resource = Resource.default().merge(
    new Resource({
      [SemanticResourceAttributes.SERVICE_NAME]: 'Your service name',
    })
  );

  // Set up metrics via prometheus
  const metricsExporter = new PrometheusExporter({});

  const myServiceMeterProvider = new MeterProvider({
    resource: resource,
  });

  myServiceMeterProvider.addMetricReader(metricsExporter);

  metrics.setGlobalMeterProvider(myServiceMeterProvider);
```

Then, create a middleware that captures the metric:
```typescript
import {Metadata, StatusObject} from '@grpc/grpc-js';
import {Middleware, MiddlewareRequestHandler} from '@gomomento/sdk';
import {metrics} from '@opentelemetry/api';
import {Counter} from '@opentelemetry/api/build/src/metrics/Metric';
import {Message} from 'google-protobuf';

class ExampleMetricMiddlewareRequestHandler implements MiddlewareRequestHandler {
  private requestCounter: Counter;
  constructor(requestCounter: Counter) {
    this.requestCounter = requestCounter;
  }
  onRequestMetadata(metadata: Metadata): Promise<Metadata> {

>     return Promise.resolve(metadata);

Reviewer: can you not just `return metadata` in these?

Author: You have to return a promise. The existing middlewares also do this.

  }

  onRequestBody(request: Message): Promise<Message> {
    const requestType = request.constructor.name;
    this.requestCounter.add(1, {'request.type': requestType});
    return Promise.resolve(request);
  }

  onResponseMetadata(metadata: Metadata): Promise<Metadata> {
    return Promise.resolve(metadata);
  }

  onResponseBody(response: Message | null): Promise<Message | null> {
    return Promise.resolve(response);
  }

  onResponseStatus(status: StatusObject): Promise<StatusObject> {
    return Promise.resolve(status);
  }
}

export class ExampleMetricMiddleware implements Middleware {
  private readonly requestCounter: Counter;
  constructor() {
    const meter = metrics.getMeter('metric-middleware-meter');

    this.requestCounter = meter.createCounter('momento_requests_counter', {
      description: 'Momento GRPC requests',
    });
  }

  onNewRequest(): MiddlewareRequestHandler {
    return new ExampleMetricMiddlewareRequestHandler(this.requestCounter);
  }
}
```

When you create the Momento CacheClient, add the middleware and the metric will be incremented with each request:
```typescript
const momento = new CacheClient({

>     configuration: Configurations.Laptop.v1().withMiddlewares([new ExampleMetricMiddleware()]),

Reviewer: Does this override the pre-configured middlewares?  (are there any?  I can't remember.)

Author: This does override the pre-configured middleware, but there are no defaults. I'll change it to addMiddleware anyway in case we use defaults in the future.

    credentialProvider: CredentialProvider.fromEnvironmentVariable({
      environmentVariableName: 'MOMENTO_AUTH_TOKEN',
    }),
    defaultTtlSeconds: 60,
  });
```

## Traces
Traces provide a detailed timeline of processes within an application, showing the relationship between different components and services involved in a specific request or operation. They allow developers to analyze the sequence and duration of these operations, facilitating a better understanding of how data flows through the system.

> The Momento Node.js SDK uses gRPC internally to communicate with the Momento servers. Here is an example that uses OpenTelemetry to automatically generate traces for these calls and exports them to Zipkin:

Reviewer: I would consider adding a sentence here calling out that the tracing is auto-instrumented, something like:

```
The OpenTelemetry provides a capability for auto-instrumenting all gRPC calls with traces; you don't need to add any middleware code to produce these traces, like you do for the metrics.
```

---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Observability
sidebar_class_name: sidebar-item-nodejs
title: Observability for TypeScript and Node.js
description: Instrument your Momento-enabled Node.js code with Logs, Metrics, and Traces
---

# Observability with Momento in Node.js

> ## Logging

Reviewer 2: If we do not have content for this section yet, can we please omit the section and the TBD until we do have content?

Author: @cprice404 Can you add this section in when you get to it?

Reviewer: yes, I will add this tomorrow morning

TBD

## Metrics
Metrics are measurements that provide quantitative information about system performance and behavior. They are numerical

> values captured and recorded over regular intervals, providing statistical data to aid in understanding the trends and

Reviewer 2: please remove carriage returns after lines. These and other lines should all be one line.

patterns in a system.

For Momento specifically, you might desire to capture metrics on the number of requests made, their duration, request or

> response size, and failure rates. These can be captured in the Node.js SDK using a middleware, which intercepts the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
response size, and failure rates. Capture these in the Node.js SDK using a middleware, which intercepts the
```

Momento gRPC calls and responses. Here is an example that uses OpenTelemetry and Prometheus to capture request count
faceted by request type:

First, set up metrics in your application:

> ```typescript

Reviewer 2: @cprice404 should this code be put into the repo and added like you have been doing other pages with code in them?

Reviewer: yes, we will move it during our swarm this week.

  constructor(requestCounter: Counter) {
    this.requestCounter = requestCounter;
  }
  onRequestMetadata(metadata: Metadata): Promise<Metadata> {
    return Promise.resolve(metadata);
  }

  onRequestBody(request: Message): Promise<Message> {
    const requestType = request.constructor.name;
    this.requestCounter.add(1, {'request.type': requestType});
    return Promise.resolve(request);
  }

  onResponseMetadata(metadata: Metadata): Promise<Metadata> {
    return Promise.resolve(metadata);
  }

  onResponseBody(response: Message | null): Promise<Message | null> {
    return Promise.resolve(response);
  }

  onResponseStatus(status: StatusObject): Promise<StatusObject> {
    return Promise.resolve(status);
  }
}

export class ExampleMetricMiddleware implements Middleware {
  private readonly requestCounter: Counter;
  constructor() {
    const meter = metrics.getMeter('metric-middleware-meter');

    this.requestCounter = meter.createCounter('momento_requests_counter', {
      description: 'Momento GRPC requests',
    });
  }

  onNewRequest(): MiddlewareRequestHandler {
    return new ExampleMetricMiddlewareRequestHandler(this.requestCounter);
  }
}
```

> When you crete the Momento client, add the middleware and the metric will be incremented with each request:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you create the Momento CacheClient, add the middleware and the metric will be incremented with each request:
```

      environmentVariableName: 'MOMENTO_AUTH_TOKEN',
    }),
    defaultTtlSeconds: 60,
  });
```

## Traces
Traces provide a detailed timeline of processes within an application, showcasing the relationship between different
components and services involved in a specific request or operation. They allow developers to analyze the sequence and
duration of these operations, facilitating a better understanding of how data flows through the system.

The Momento Node.js SDK uses gRPC internally to communicate with the Momento servers. Here is an example that uses
OpenTelemetry to automatically generate traces for these calls and exports them to Zipkin:

```typescript
const resource = Resource.default().merge(
new Resource({
  [SemanticResourceAttributes.SERVICE_NAME]: 'Your service name',
})
);

// Set up tracing via zipkin
const provider = new NodeTracerProvider({
resource: resource,
});

const exporter = new ZipkinExporter();

provider.addSpanProcessor(new SimpleSpanProcessor(exporter));
provider.register();

registerInstrumentations({
instrumentations: [new GrpcInstrumentation()],
});

```

This needs to run before any Momento code.

> Be aware that traces can have a large performance penalty. If your application makes a large volume of calls to Momento,

Reviewer 2: "large" is relative and nebulous. Can we put more definitive numbers around these statements? Is that a 5% performance hit? 25%? and when you say "large volume of calls" what is large to you? 10,000? 10,000,000? more?

Author: I don't have specific data. I can change the wording to something like "If the performance of your application is impacted by trace generation".
